README.md, before:

# wayfire-tests

A collection of tests I use for testing Wayfire and discovering regressions.

# Usage

Tests are organized in directories, starting in `./tests`, and each test is contained in its own directory.
To execute a test or group of tests, run:

```sh
./run_tests.sh <test directory> <wayfire A> (--compare-with <wayfire B>)
```

`<test directory>` is the directory which contains all the tests you want to run.
Information about each test run will be printed on the terminal.

`<wayfire A>` is the Wayfire executable/launch script. It should accept the same arguments as the Wayfire executable.

Some of the tests test the graphical output of Wayfire (so called GUI tests in the code).
To make these tests independent of things like GTK themes, etc., these tests require a second Wayfire version to run (the `--compare-with` option).
Both versions are executed with the same configuration and the same IPC commands are fed to them.
At the end, screenshots of both sessions are taken and compared.

### Tips and tricks

##### IPC timeout
If many tests are failing, this could be because your system runs slower than mine.
You can try increasing the lengths of the timeouts using in tests (which of course will make them run more slowly) with the `--ipc-timeout` option.
Its default value is `0.1`.

##### Parallel running
The test runner supports running multiple tests in parallel with the `-j <N>` option.
Running many tests in parallel puts a lot of stress on the system (esp. during Wayfire's and client initialization, since these often depend on system calls and the GPU hardware).
To avoid this happening:

- Do not run too many tests in parallel (personal rule of a thumb is to use a bit less than the physical core count, but of course this depends on the system).
- Use the `--interactive` flag. After the tests are run, you will be presented with a list of tests that failed. You can rerun all of them sequentially by typing `run all` at the prompt, most of the tests should now become green. You can also rerun a particular failed test by typing `run <test number>`, or `run <test number> slow` to add extra timeouts.

##### Run tests in the background

You can also run tests in the background by using a headless Wayfire session, the `run_nested.sh` script can be used for that.
This is particularly useful for regression testing, where you can just leave all the tests to run and do something else in the meantime.

# How to write a new test

Tests are a combination a python test file and a Wayfire config file.
Currently, the following is required for the python test file:

1. A function `is_gui()` returning whether the test is a GUI test (e.g. compares the graphical output of two Wayfire versions).
2. A class named `WTest` which implements the `WayfireTest` interface defined in `wfpytest/wftest.py`.

The tests can use the modules defined in `wfpytest/` for example to launch Wayfire, communicate with it via IPC, etc.
The test runner automatically switches to each test's directory when executing the given test, so any temporary files can be stored there and
later reviewed (useful for example for the `wayfire.log` file generated by most tests).

Commit message:

update README with even more tips & tricks and also make interactive run all-parallel

README.md, after:

# wayfire-tests

A collection of tests I use for testing Wayfire and discovering regressions.

# Usage

Tests are organized in directories, starting in `./tests`, and each test is contained in its own directory.
To execute a test or group of tests, run:

```sh
./run_tests.sh <test directory> <wayfire A> (--compare-with <wayfire B>)
```

`<test directory>` is the directory which contains all the tests you want to run.
Information about each test run will be printed on the terminal.

`<wayfire A>` is the Wayfire executable/launch script. It should accept the same arguments as the Wayfire executable.

Some of the tests test the graphical output of Wayfire (so called GUI tests in the code).
To make these tests independent of things like GTK themes, etc., these tests require a second Wayfire version to run (the `--compare-with` option).
Both versions are executed with the same configuration and the same IPC commands are fed to them.
At the end, screenshots of both sessions are taken and compared.

### Tips and tricks

##### IPC timeout
If many tests are failing, this could be because your system runs slower than mine.
You can try increasing the lengths of the timeouts using in tests (which of course will make them run more slowly) with the `--ipc-timeout` option.
Its default value is `0.1`.

##### Parallel running
The test runner supports running multiple tests in parallel with the `-j <N>` option.
Running many tests in parallel puts a lot of stress on the system (esp. during Wayfire's and client initialization, since these often depend on system calls and the GPU hardware).
To avoid this happening:

- Do not run too many tests in parallel (personal rule of a thumb is to use a bit less than the physical core count, but of course this depends on the system).
- Use the `--interactive` flag. After the tests are run, you will be presented with a list of tests that failed.
You can rerun all of them sequentially by typing `run all` or in parallel with `run all-parallel` at the prompt.
Most of the tests should now become green.
You can also rerun a particular failed test by typing `run <test number>`, or `run slow <test number>` to add extra timeouts.

My personal workflow is like this:

```sh
./run_tests.sh tests/ <wayfire A> --compare_with <wayfire B> -j 10 --interactive
# At the prompt:
run slow all-parallel
run slow all
```

After this, all tests are usually green :)

##### Run tests in the background

You can also run tests in the background by using a headless Wayfire session, the `run_nested.sh` script can be used for that.
This is particularly useful for regression testing, where you can just leave all the tests to run and do something else in the meantime.

# How to write a new test

Tests are a combination a python test file and a Wayfire config file.
Currently, the following is required for the python test file:

1. A function `is_gui()` returning whether the test is a GUI test (e.g. compares the graphical output of two Wayfire versions).
2. A class named `WTest` which implements the `WayfireTest` interface defined in `wfpytest/wftest.py`.

The tests can use the modules defined in `wfpytest/` for example to launch Wayfire, communicate with it via IPC, etc.
The test runner automatically switches to each test's directory when executing the given test, so any temporary files can be stored there and
later reviewed (useful for example for the `wayfire.log` file generated by most tests).
